---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Expert Workshop Intro
Welcome to the **Clean hexagonal onion with a Dash of DDD in Spring** workshop at Javaland 2023.
My name is Maik Kingma, and I will be your coach for today. Since I cannot be with everyone simultaneously, 
these docs will provide you with a step-by-step guide.

Keep validating your work after every chapter.
In case you get stuck somewhere along the way, you can always continue the workshop on a code base snapshot from
one of the prepared branches that provide you the solution of each chapter.

## Getting Help
I will do my best to answer all the questions. We will have sync moments regularly throughout the workshop, where we can
discuss questions together.

### Time management
There are 6 implementation chapters in total. They become increasingly complex.
At the end of each section, there is a git branch reference with which you can continue to the next chapter,
in case you got stuck.

#### Example:
```javascript
if (allTestsGreen == true) {
    log.info("DONE! Let's move on to the next topic: XXX")}
else{
    log.error("Shout for help!") || (git stash && git checkout 5-persist-author-data-done)
}
```

### What you will need
- JDK 17
- Docker Desktop
- An IDE of your choice (ideally IntelliJ)
- an Internet connection

### Side note
The purpose of this workshop is to get to know the Clean Hexagonal Onion pattern and how to apply it in combination with
some DDD in a Spring Boot application. I do not intend to have full test coverage in this project. Instead, the provided
unit-tests test the happy flow, paired with an occasional integration test or two.
